.TH DLM_TOOL 8 2009-01-20 cluster cluster

.SH NAME
dlm_tool \- a utility for the dlm and dlm_controld daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dlm_tool
[COMMAND] [OPTIONS]
[
.I name
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.B ls
Display internal dlm_controld state about lockspaces.

.TP
.B dump
Dump dlm_controld debug buffer.

.TP
.B log_plock
Dump dlm_controld plock debug buffer.

.TP
.BI plocks " name"
Dump posix locks from dlm_controld for the lockspace.

.TP
.BI lockdump " name"
Minimal display of locks from the lockspace.

.TP
.BI lockdebug " name"
Extended display of locks from the lockspace.

.TP
.BI join " name"
Join a lockspace.

.TP
.BI leave " name"
Leave a lockspace.

.TP
.BI deadlock_check " name"
Start a deadlock detection cycle for the lockspace.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-n
Show all node information in ls.

.TP
.BI \-d " num"
Resource directory enabled (1) or disabled (0) during join. Default 0.

.TP
.BI \-e " num"
Exclusive create off/on (0/1) in join. Default 0.

.TP
.BI \-f " num"
FS memory allocation off/on (0/1) in join. Default 0.

.TP
.BI \-m " mode"
The permission mode (in octal) of the lockspace device created by join.
Default 0600.

.TP
.B \-M
Dump MSTCPY locks in addition to locks held by local processes.

.TP
.B \-s
Summary following lockdebug output (experimental, format may change).

.TP
.B \-v
Verbose lockdebug output.

.TP
.B \-w
Wide lockdebug output.

.TP
.B \-h
Print a help message describing available options, then exit.

.TP
.B \-V
Print program version information, then exit.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dlm_controld (8)

